[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Jay Weidner.
And we're back for our third
installment of our talks
with Crotalo, who comes from the
Damanhur Institute and sacred
Mystery School in Italy.
What town again?
In Damanhur, nearby Turin.
Yeah, Turin.
And we're going to do a
quick review of what we've
been talking about before.
And then we're
going to go in more
depth into the great
imagery that he has
brought with him from Italy.
How you doing?
Very good, thank you.
It's a pleasure to be back here.
So let's do a quick
review, all right?
What is Damanhur exactly?
Well, Damanhur is a
sort of real dream.
It's the largest federation
of communities in Europe.
It was born in 1975
inspired from the dream
of Oberto Airaudi, Falco.
He was dreaming
about a place where
to bring together
everyday life in Damanhur
and the spiritual research.
So unfortunately,
many times when
we talk about spirituality,
we theorize a lot,
or we have a lot of ideas.
But then on the practical
level, there is some separation.
So the idea of Damanhur
was to create a place
to live together, but also to
make the spiritual research
something that you
do every moment
in every part of your life.
So little by little, Damanhur
becomes something pretty big.
Because we're talking
now about 1,000 people
that are living
in this place that
is in the north of Italy nearby
Turin in this city called
[INAUDIBLE].
And Damanhur in expression of
this practical spirituality--
let's say, to meditate
not only when we sit,
but also when we move our hands.
So in this action, and in this
make it happen, all of this,
creates this Temple
of Humankind that
is one of the most
popular things
that people know about us.
It's the largest
underground temple
completely built by hands from
us, from the Damanhurians.
It's more than 6,000 square
meters dug into the rock done
according to the
ancient knowledge,
or if you want,
the stone language,
the same used in the
Pyramids or in cathedrals
or in other temples.
So you use the sacred
geometry to talk
a language, a language
in this case that's
touching the vital energy.
But at the same time,
when you are inside,
when you're visiting,
when you're meditating,
is a language that talks
really deep inside, just right
into your soul.
And it's dedicated
to the humankind.
Because Damanhur is
not a new religion.
Damanhur doesn't
want to convince
anyone about what we believe
and what we are researching.
But Damanhur is a
spiritual research.
And in this, we believe
that we can inspire people
to find their way,
their spiritual way,
to find out why they're here.
Or as we say in Damanhur,
which is your mission,
the reason why you're back.
There is a special thing to do.
So the temple is a place
dedicated to the humankind.
Because it's a place that
is dedicated to everyone
and to the fact that everyone is
here because there is something
special for this person.
So one of the goals is to help
people find out why they came
back here, what their
mission is, in this life
so that the incarnation
process is more complete.
Yes, you're right.
So we believe that we have
a bigger goal than simply,
if I can say, go to work every
day, spend money, or more money
than we earn, and go out to
restaurants, coming back.
So life is something bigger.
And life is not
only what appears,
what we see with our eyes.
But life is also
what doesn't appear,
is invisible, is what
we perceive but we
cannot see with these eyes.
So Damanhur, like other
places in the world--
and the Temple of Humankind
is one of these places built
to inspire people, to inspire
talking a language that is not
done on words, but is
done on, if you want,
silence, or feelings, or energy,
that are a talk for the soul,
an opportunity for the soul,
to express who we really are.
And who we really
are is not only
what the others are
telling us who we are
or what we have to do.
Because unfortunately we
are many times living a life
that other people want from
us-- what our girlfriend
or wife wants, or what
parents, teachers,
businesses, et cetera.
So then we start to
appear how they like.
Because then we feel
that we are valuable.
But at the end, maybe we're
not really living the life
that we feel, that we desire.
So there is moments in
life, that "crisis," where
we stop for a
moment, and then we
start to listen again what
is coming from inside,
not what is coming from outside.
And then we might realize
that, oops, we're not really
doing what we deserve to do.
And then people
are maybe changing,
transforming their life.
So in that moment, when we start
to listen to the voice inside,
we start to come close
to discover our mission--
who we are according to
what we have to realize.
Again, there is
something very specific
that every life is bringing for
us, something unique for us.
Like imagine to be all 007,
in this case, spiritual
007 with mission to transform.
And then we have really to
transform our life according
to what we have inside.
And inside we have so many
potentials, so many talents,
so many possibilities.
So the temple is this
knocking at the door,
is this opportunity to let the
soul express again the reason
why we're here.
And we don't believe
that everyone has to come
to live in Damanhur-- no.
This is not our intention.
But Damanhur can really
be that inspiration,
that example, that
instrument that opens
up a little bit the heart.
We can use the forensic words
to talk about these same things.
So in a way, it's using
spiritual principles
to reprogram the person so that
they're more attuned to what
they really are here
for and not for what
they think they're here for.
That is pretty smart--
reprogramming, yes.
Unfortunately, we live our life
according to programs that we
get since we were little kids.
In education, the
first eight years
are pretty, pretty
important to get many
of the programs, many
of the values, that then
will influence our entire life.
And many times, then,
we don't understand
why our life is going
always in some way,
or we have always these issues.
And this also connects
to these programs
that are running behind.
And sometimes we're
not conscious of that.
So how we change
these programs--
when we start to come back
to the values, when we start
to come back to the significant,
why I'm here, the reason why
I'm back, and also
which are the values
that are guiding my life.
So talking about spirituality
or spiritual research,
well, there it is done.
It's really to come
back to the fundamental,
come back to the basic values,
and then to reprogram ourself
according to these new
values, or ancient values.
Because what is inside
is already everything.
So there's nothing new.
We are simply remembering or,
let's say, open the memory
that is coming from the past.
But the fact is that
unfortunately we're
living in a society where
all the attention is
outside on the
surface, how we appear,
how nice is this body, how we
dress, how we cut our hair,
which car we're driving, and
et cetera, and et cetera.
So we constantly move the
attention from outside.
Every spiritual research,
it's exactly the opposite--
brings attention deep inside,
but really deep inside
in listening to
your inner voice,
in touching your essence,
in touching the true meaning
of who you are.
But people sometimes are lost
in this kind of environment.
Because they don't
know how to do it.
They never studied at school.
Or their parents never
told them what to do.
JAY WEIDNER: And they've
never sat in silence.
Yes, or many times--
I mean, oh my goodness,
don't even talk
about some topic.
Or don't try to
express yourself.
Because then you appear
weak in front of the others,
or you're not allowed
to thinking in that way.
So unfortunately, we are
trapped in a sort of box
where we know more what we are
not allowed to do than what
we are allowed to express.
JAY WEIDNER: That's right.
That's a great way to put it.
So spirituality, in
every kind of form,
is the path to come back inside.
And then inside, listen
and research and discover
the true values of your life.
And if you want, this
is a great opportunity
this we have in this
time, the time of crisis.
From 2008, everybody's mad
about money, financial things,
the economy, and so on.
Well, for me, for us,
it's not just about
a crisis regarding
the financial system
or the free market or the banks.
But it's more a
crisis about values.
What is true?
What is not true?
It's true my family, my
friendships, the people nearby,
my feelings, my emotion, is
more true than what I receive
from the bank, a piece
of paper or letter
that's saying that I have
a zero more or a zero less.
And then I feel safe
if I have a zero more,
and I feel unsafe
if it's a zero less.
So what is true?
What is not true?
What is fake, and
what is really real?
So many people are really
questioning themselves.
And they are really
also suffering.
Because they're
not used to this.
And the entire system
seems to be now so
unstable, almost to collapse.
Why?
Well, probably because we are
in a new age or in a new era
that can really open something
completely different.
But to do that, we
have to come back.
We have to come back inside
and then finally feel
what is true for us,
not for what is outside.
So this, for us, is
a great opportunity,
crisis, to make change.
Because when everything is
going well, who wants to change?
No one.
Only when we are in
a sort of crisis then
we are, yes, open to transform.
So crises are an
incredible opportunity
now, not only to
change people, but
probably to change the system.
Because we don't believe that
we have to destroy the system,
or because sometimes you say,
OK, the system is not working.
Let's destroy the system.
Well no, it doesn't work.
JAY WEIDNER: It
needs to be fixed.
Exactly.
Or let's say we have to change
the system, but from inside.
So we believe that
now the opportunity
is to change, but not from
above, but from below,
from the bottom.
JAY WEIDNER: Because if
you change from below,
the change will happen above.
CROTALO SESAMO:
Exactly, so we don't
have to wait that president
will make the changes we need.
JAY WEIDNER: That only
politicians or scientists--
Or politicians or
important people--
no, we are the important people.
We are the ones that
are changing the world.
And the first step is really
to be conscious of this.
You can change the world.
I can change the world.
Everybody can change the world
if we're conscious of this.
So the change starts
from the bottom.
It starts from people.
We have to care about people.
We have to care about
what they feel inside.
We have to care about what
they feel is their truth.
And if it's true, it will be
in the respect of their truth.
Because this is another
big topic-- the respect,
oh my goodness.
Religion, how they
respect themselves--
actually, probably not so much.
JAY WEIDNER: Not very much, no.
Are we able really to respect
the ideas of the others?
Mm, eh, probably not so much.
So when we talk about
the truth, we don't talk
about one truth or one god.
We talk about the fact
that truth is a crystal
based on many different faces.
And all of these faces
is a different truth.
So when we talk
about the change,
it's about the
change of the fact
that people have to
choose their truth.
But to do that, they
have to feel it before.
And after that,
this truth has to be
in the respect of the others.
When this happens
from the bottom,
this will change all the system.
So the reason why Damanhur
is, let's say, encouraging
so much people to
come to visit us,
to come to meditate
in the into temple,
or we are ambassadors traveling
all over the world to spread
the message and also then
to teach different kinds
of seminars or topics, is
really to inspire people
to find their way, inspire
people to look inside,
giving them an instrument,
spiritual instrument--
techniques, whatever
you want to call--
to dive into their
feelings, and then to find
out which is their mission.
When people are doing
that, we are starting
to create the movement that
will change the world according
to what the people will
believe in their values
and in their respect
of the values.
Because spirituality
is something universal.
It's not just reserved for
someone or for some religion.
So this is the general approach.
And Damanhur is also the example
that, practically speaking,
it's also possible to
create a new reality,
new society, new way of living.
The idea of the community,
that unfortunately
sometimes is more connected to
sex, drugs, and rock and roll.
Or in the past, it
was more like this.
It's, for us, an
interesting experiment
not only to create a
new society, but also,
again, to work inside of you.
Well, when you
live with others--
and I have to say that
community doesn't mean that you
are 20 people in one room, no.
That could be fun for a few
days, but it's not working.
So community means that everyone
has their private room--
couple, single,
couple with children,
young people, old people.
So we share the common
room-- the kitchen,
the bathroom, the
living room, et cetera.
But we are creating then what we
call a nuclear family of about
18, 22 people that are
living together as families,
like large families.
But the opportunity
to live together
is not only an incredible
celebration of experience.
Because you share not only
your life, but the life
of the other 20 people with
the different perspective,
with the different logic,
sometimes also with
a different culture, languages.
Because Damanhur is an
international place.
So we have people really
from all over the world.
But living together,
spiritually speaking,
it's a great, great
exercise when you
want that everyday exercise.
Because when you
live with the others,
it's like to have mirrors,
do you know what I mean?
Many mirrors around you,
and they are constantly
reflecting who you are.
Because many times, we have an
idea of us that is not exactly
what we project from outside.
So maybe I feel and I believe
that I'm so good, so fantastic,
so generous, and then
maybe the others don't
have the same perspective.
So living together gives you
always the exact position
in where you are.
And many times what you really
don't like of the others
is many times what
you really like
of what you don't like of you.
So living together is an
acceleration of that process
that every spiritual research
brings-- the transformation,
the change, and in this
case, not to transform what
is already good, but
to change what probably
is still not completely good.
So Damanhur is a model, is
an experience, is an example,
is an inspiration to say,
hey, if we did it in Italy
with no money in this
little village with not so
many opportunities,
come on, everybody
can do it all over the world.
And the community
model, who knows?
It could be maybe a future
model for the humankind.
Maybe people, instead of living
millions in the same place,
and they don't even know who
is living in front of you,
well, people might create many
different communities all based
on their values, all
based on their beliefs,
and at the same time, in the
respect of the other beliefs,
in the respect of
the other values,
and then creating diversity.
Because this planet
needs so much diversity.
Because it's becoming too flat.
JAY WEIDNER: Homogenous.
CROTALO SESAMO: Many
things are the same.
So we need multicolor,
not just one color.
We need the expression
of who we are.
And we are many things, not
just one or some things.
So we have really to
create the instrument
to express people in
who they are always
in the base of their values.
So that is the process.
So we start from something
that is coming inside,
that is touching the soul, that
is touching the real values.
And then we have to bring this
outside and make it happen.
And this is a spiritual
research-- not only meditating,
but then also do the practical
meditation; not only to look
for, which are your
values, but then apply
these values in
your everyday life;
not only imagine to
transform your life,
but then to change your life.
And I feel that
this is absolutely
one of the greatest adventures
that every individual can do.
Well actually, I live my
life as a great adventure.
I've been living in Damanhur
for more than 26 years.
And already to say 26, 25
years-- oh my goodness.
But it was like this.
It was a great, fantastic,
incredible adventure.
And it still is.
Because you are constantly in
something that brings not only
the best of you to be used,
but also to discover always
something different and to have
always the dreams in front that
is not only ones
you get tomorrow,
but always, what could
be the next step.
And it makes your life really a
life that you deserve to live.
JAY WEIDNER: At Gaiam
TV, we kind of follow
that same philosophy of an
electronic community more,
and not together.
Let's talk about these
images that you have.
Because they're
incredibly fascinating.
You were here talking
about them before.
As I recall, the founder
of Damanhur and an artist
went back in time to Atlantis.
Tell us that story.
Well, we might just come
in the previous picture,
just because that
can help us to give
a different meaning about that.
What is this picture anyway?
Well, this is the
picture of what
we call the synchronic lines.
And in the past, it
was called the point
of the back of the dragon.
And many times, the symbology
of dragons or big snakes
represent the energy river.
JAY WEIDNER: Like feng shui.
Yeah, something like that.
You can imagine that as we
have a physical body, and then
an aura that is
surrounding us, we
might imagine that the planet
is done in a physical form,
but also with a sort of aura.
And like we have
meridians, or how
we call in Damanhur
microlines, points where
the energy are coming in and
out, well, for the planet,
it's the same.
So there are lines,
synchronic lines,
that represent the highway
of the vital energy that is
moving inside of this planet.
We talk about 18
synchronic lines,
nine that are moving
vertically, nine
that are moving horizontally.
The fact that in this map
we have blue and red lines
is just to divide this vertical.
JAY WEIDNER: Red are
vertical and the blue
are the horizontal.
CROTALO SESAMO:
Exactly, exactly.
And what is interesting
for us also--
see they really serve the
humankind, or a different use
of the humankind.
It is pretty, let's say,
very, very different
from the classical archeology.
So the classic
archeology said that we
are the best, more or less.
2014, we are the
best of everything.
JAY WEIDNER: We're
the number one.
We're the number one.
We're the best in the expression
of technology, resources,
energy, everything, cool.
Well, do you believe so?
Well, I don't really believe so.
JAY WEIDNER: Nor do I.
To see what we are still
doing in terms of destroying
life, reserves, and everything.
JAY WEIDNER: Cruelty.
Well, I don't really
feel that we are the best.
JAY WEIDNER: I don't either.
So there is another
perspective of history
that doesn't say
that we are the best,
but simply that we
are in one point
of an evolution that in the
past was probably even higher.
And then there was civilization.
There was knowledge.
There was technology.
There was much higher of
what we are using now.
And then unfortunately,
probably,
we restart, also because we know
that life is pretty fragile.
JAY WEIDNER: So
there's catastrophes.
Just a piece of
rock that is coming
from outside that can shoot
the planet will, well, create--
JAY WEIDNER: Wipe out
civilization overnight.
Some little problem-- how
we say, can wash the floor.
All of this happened.
So probably we restart also
many times in the history.
But looking at the
synchronic lines,
and in particular to the point
where these synchronic lines
touching together,
crossing together,
we might discover that
exactly at that point,
important civilization,
temples, pyramid, sacred places,
they were always located
exactly in that point, a point
that probably now they are
even not existent anymore.
Because this is the map of our
planet before the great flood,
before this disaster of
10,000, 12,000 years ago
was really changing
the face of the planet.
But the synchronic lines
are still giving us
probably indication of points
that are extremely important
now, and points that
probably were extremely
important in the past.
I don't have to tell you
that the point that you see
in Europe nearby,
well, Italy, where
there are four of these
synchronic lines crossing
is Damanhur.
Damanhur is built in one of
the most important energy
points of the planet.
And the temple-- now
we might understand
why it's under ground.
Not only because
we're crazy and we
have fun to dig into the rock
during the day or the night,
but because the temple is built
to plug, to connect perfectly,
this incredible
source of energy.
So it's done under ground,
because these energy lines are
going very deep into the
earth or high into the sky
or under the water.
So like in the past, creating
a structure under ground
was a way to connect
perfectly in that energy.
So let's say you
have the laboratory,
and you have also the energy.
You have the station, and
you have whatever you need
to make it work, this station.
Or you have an antenna,
and then you have all
the plugs to give the signal.
And what is interesting is that
the synchronic lines are, yes,
crossing the entire planet.
But then nearby the
polls, they are creating
a sort of double spiral.
They're extending
these synchronic lines
in other sort of
systems, connecting
the other synchronic lines
coming from the other planet.
And from the Sun, that is
the gate of our system,
they are coming out and then
connecting all the rest.
Like you say, we're not alone.
Or the real highway
for everywhere
are the synchronic lines.
But what is interesting
for us, and what
is interesting in the
different approach regarding
this alternative history,
is to see how time--
let's say it's all connected.
Well, you know that we have
a different idea about time.
We talk about time
like a territory.
So it's always possible
to move in this territory.
We talk about time travel.
We don't talk so much
about time travel.
But yes, for sure,
in our beliefs,
we believe that time
travel is possible.
And we also believe that
time could be described
also like a huge wheel.
There's many cultures
that are talking
about the time as a wheel.
And the fact that
many calendars are
so precise to
anticipate events is
because this wheel is moving.
And then it's probably
bringing back some opportunity,
some occasion.
It takes time.
But they're coming back.
I'm not telling you
that there is destiny.
OK, we can just sit,
and things will happen.
No, unfortunately not.
We have to use our free will,
the power of our choices.
So to choose is the
last divine power.
We can guide the future
instead of the choices
that we're going to
make in our life.
But if we know what this will,
what time, is bringing back,
well, it might help to use the
opportunities that are coming.
JAY WEIDNER: So you know
if midnight's coming,
you turn on a light.
CROTALO SESAMO: Yeah,
something like that.
Or if I know that I have a great
opportunity to make some change
or to make happen some
kind of situation,
well, it could be pretty
interesting to know in advance.
And even more-- if I already
make some mistakes in the past,
maybe I don't want to
repeat these mistakes.
So for us, history
is so important
because probably
looking at the past
is a way to look at the future.
Looking at what was
going on a long time ago
is like to see what
can happen right now.
That's the reason why we take
so much attention about history
and why we teach so
much about history.
And in this history, there
are moments that are probably
very important to understand
what is going on now, also
in terms of civilization.
They probably are
not existing anymore.
But they are still giving us
strong influence in this time,
in this moment.
And I'm talking
now about Atlantis.
And, well, Atlantis
really [GASPS]
takes the breath away
from many people.
Because they say, wow,
Atlantis is the dream
of this refined civilization,
of this incredible way of living
together, of creating things.
But actually even if everybody
feels Atlantis is true,
in this moment Atlantis
is still not existent.
I mean, there's a lot of theory
that says, OK, it's Bimini,
Bahamas.
No, it's Sardinia, the
Isle of Sardinia in Italy.
Or no, it's Santorini in
Greece, or no, it's Cuba,
or no, it's just
down there where
there is the Bermuda Triangle.
So there are many theories, but
actually at the moment, not one
proof, not one proof, even
if we feel deep in our heart
that Atlantis is real.
JAY WEIDNER: But you would
assume that it'd be at a place
where the two lines
are crossing, right?
CROTALO SESAMO: Yes,
and in another way,
it seems that at that time,
if we see time as a territory,
so that territory seems
to be disconnected
from this territory.
So they're still not
touching together.
So if we believe that
Atlantis was really
one of the most
important civilizations,
or a civilization that
still, for some reason,
influences what is going on now,
in the Damanhur mission, that
is, for sure, a mission that
is to inspire the world,
to accelerate the spiritual
process for the world, but is
also, if you want, the idea
to create a bridge, a bridge
between time and space, time
and dimension, if all of this
is just the base or, let's
say, the beginning of something
that is a new age,
well actually,
we're already in a new age.
We're not talking
anymore about it.
But in the '70s,
finally, everybody
was talking about the Aquarius
age, the age of the real waking
of the spirituality.
Ages are 2,000
years, 2,000 years.
So if we have to reawaken
the spirituality,
it takes probably some
events to do that.
So if all of this is true,
and if Damanhur is going there
and is here to be this bridge
between time and space,
well, I have sayings to create
a connection also to that time,
to that time territory.
I'm just trying
to inspire people.
But inspiring people--
let's image that maybe
at the beginning of
the '80s, Falco, Oberto
Airaudi, the founder,
that is definitely
a very, very unique person.
Unfortunately, he
passed last June.
And Falco, since the beginning,
was the one with the memory,
probably the memory of
why he was coming back,
which was his mission.
And definitely the mission was
Damanhur, creating this place,
creating this
spiritual accelerator.
And alone, it was not possible.
So there was other people
connecting to the Damanhur
project-- different
[INAUDIBLE] that then together
make possible what we did.
So if Falco is this
person with the memory,
probably also with the memory
of the knowledge regarding all
of these aspects-- so since
the beginning of Damanhur,
we talk about time.
We talk about time territory.
We talk about the possibility
to travel in time,
and also the mission to
reconnect different time
territory with right now.
So at the time, it
was not the first.
It was not the last.
But there was the occasion
to maybe do a time travel.
And I'm not talking about your
fantasy or astral traveling.
I'm really talking about using
a door, a physical door, a time
door, that from this time
you jump in physically,
you disappear.
And then from another
door, a time door,
in another time,
another territory,
you physically appear.
You do what you have to do.
JAY WEIDNER: I saw "Terminator."
The same thing, let's say.
Well, there's many movies
that are pretty inspiring.
And who knows?
Maybe it's true.
Maybe it's possible.
So Falco at the
time was, let's say,
invited to come
back to Atlantis,
to come back to
this civilization.
Again, it was not
the first time.
And it will not be the last one.
But there is a reason,
or several reasons.
One of them is to
bring back some images,
some pictures, some symbols,
some signs able to do what?
Well, to reawaken inside of
people the memory of Atlantis.
Because Atlantis here
is still not existing.
Atlantis is still,
let's say, disconnected.
So these symbols,
these pictures, they
might help to bring,
let's say, more close
these two different
territories and maybe finally
to unite them.
Because can you imagine
if tomorrow someone will
discover where is Atlantis?
And then they will confirm
that we're not the best,
that the evolution of human kind
is very different from what we
read in the book of
history, that there was
advanced civilization, advanced
technology, that probably
life is not just coming
from this planet,
but maybe it's coming
also from another planet.
It will not be a shake in
the conscience of millions,
maybe billions, of
people on this planet,
will not be maybe one
of these occasions
to accelerate the
evolution, or maybe
just to move the conscience
to another level.
We believe so.
And that's the reason
why we are also
looking with a lot of
interest to some research
done in some other
places of the world,
like the Bosnian pyramids.
You've probably heard about it.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
we've done a show on it.
CROTALO SESAMO: It's
been years that we
are in contact with Semir,
that is a good friend.
And also we brought
groups there to see
that, oh, maybe we have really
to write the books of history.
Anyhow, so if all of this
is true, the problem,
when you do a physical
time travel, is this you
cannot bring anything with you.
You cannot export complexity,
as we say, in this [INAUDIBLE].
So you have to go
naked-- nothing.
JAY WEIDNER: Just
like "Terminator."
No video camera
as you might have
done before, a long time ago.
Well, anyhow, so how to
bring back these pictures,
how to make it happen--
so Falco decided then
to invite another person,
a very good friend,
a painter, Dovilio Brero.
Unfortunately, Dovilio
passed some years ago.
But Dovilio is an
incredible painter.
Because he has a sort of memory
that is a sort of human camera.
So he can really paint exactly
what he saw with his eyes,
photographic memory.
Do you know him?
Did you know him?
Yes, I know him in
the past, and pretty
extraordinary artist.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
right, is that his work?
Yes, this is some of his work.
He's great.
Let's say that Dovilio
accepted this invitation.
And then at the right
time and the right place,
they were jumping, both jumping,
from one of these time doors,
disappearing from this time,
appearing in that time.
There was someone that was
waiting for them, and for three
days and three night, spent this
incredible journey to discover
the capitol, the central part
of what we call Atlantis.
And then at the right
time and the right place,
disappearing from that time,
jumping from that time,
and then reappearing
to this time,
and then started to
paint for days and days
trying to remember
all the details
that they saw with their eyes.
And all of these now
are several paintings.
And I have to remind you
that the paintings are
40 or 50 centimeters,
are not so big,
but are incredibly
rich of details.
And the symbology
that are inside
are really like keys, able
really to open the memory,
really able to move
your conscience.
Let's move some
consciousness then.
CROTALO SESAMO: Let's
go for the movie.
Yeah, let's move
some consciousness.
Let's come back
to the first one.
I'm sorry.
JAY WEIDNER: OK, let's go back.
CROTALO SESAMO: Just to
see how right in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean you see
there are these lines that
are crossing together.
It seems to give
us some indication
of where probably Atlantis was.
In Platon, that is one of the
first talking about Atlantis.
It's mentioning about
a huge island right
in the middle of what we
call the Atlantic Ocean--
strange name for
an ocean-- right
in the middle between what
we call Europe and America.
So now we can go
to the next one.
And here we are.
JAY WEIDNER: This is a
drawing that he drew of a map
that he saw in Atlantis, right?
CROTALO SESAMO: Exactly.
JAY WEIDNER: That's amazing.
CROTALO SESAMO: Very
interesting is the, let's say,
physical morphology.
Because we are on
these tectonic plates.
So we have on the surface
very high, high mountains
that are sort of
a natural border
between the different regions.
So the two tectonic plates.
At the same times,
underground we're
going to discover huge, huge
caves, natural empty spaces
that are also the
perfect morphology
to attract these synchronic
lines, these energy lines.
At the same time, to get
by boat on these islands
is very difficult. Because
there is an ocean and a sea
of cold water and warm water.
So it's always very stormy.
And at the same time,
there is a lot of wind.
Wind is probably one of
the elements that are more
present every
moment in Atlantis,
an interesting morphology
that brings this island to be
pretty isolated from the rest.
And the reason why this
civilization was growing
so fast is probably also because
they didn't need to protect
themselves from all sides.
All the resources were--
Didn't have to worry
about navies and armies.
Or let's say other ones that
want to invade you or whatever.
Yes, we have more a
politic map here just
to see the different--
These are different provinces?
They're different regions,
regions that are also
connecting to different races.
We might try to imagine that
before, Atlantis was really
a melting pot of
races, different ways
of thinking, diversity.
Well, diversity is
an element that is
really connecting to evolution.
And what probably
brings Atlantis
to be such an
important civilization
is the capacity
to bring together
many different mentalities,
many different races,
many different diversity.
Well actually, we need
so much right now.
Because more we divide in
class, color of the skin,
rich and poor, religion.
So the more we divide, the
more we create conflict.
Only when we bring the effort
to put together this diversity
we are accelerating
the evolution.
So the aspect of
the diversity is
represented in the
architecture, in the art.
Art is the representation of
the values of a civilization.
So for example, here are
described the main cities
of the different region.
And as you probably
see, all of then
have different symbols or a
different architecture simply
to express this diversity.
JAY WEIDNER: So we have
a five pointed star.
CROTALO SESAMO: Yeah, it's
like five stars, like cross,
like square, half a moon,
hexagon, spiral, or again,
like Platon says, rings,
a huge, huge city based
on rings surrounded by water.
And this is really the
capital, the place where
Falco and Dovilio spent
this incredible journey,
the capital called Atlan.
It's right there, you see?
Atlan, that is the capital.
And it's funny because in some
other ancient civilization,
like the Aztec--
but wait a moment.
When we talk about
Atlantis, we talk at least
about more than
20,000, 24,000 years
ago, the beginning of Atlantis.
At the end of Atlantis,
unfortunately,
it's about the
great flood, let's
say 10,000, 12,000 years ago.
So we have a long period of time
where we talk about Atlantis.
What we call now
ancient civilization,
Egyptian, Mayas,
Incas, or others,
well, they're coming
after Atlantis.
But it's nice to know that,
for example, the name Aztec,
it's coming from
one of their myths.
And in this myth, they talk
about the first man, men coming
to bring the knowledge,
and then to help
to create the civilization.
And these first men, they're
coming from a mythical city
called Aztlan.
And then they took from
this myth the name Aztlan.
They change it to
Aztec-- Aztlan, Atlan,
they seem very similar, eh?
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah, they are.
Very, very similar.
This is Atlan.
This is the capital.
And, well, it's incredible
how Dovilio brought so
many details, so many elements.
And every time that I'm
showing this picture,
I have to admit that I'm
always finding something new.
And I'm really sure-- hundreds
and hundreds of times.
And again, not only because
there is symbology that
probably remind us--
pyramids from Egypt
or Nazca or step pyramid.
But again, we have
to remember that all
of these ancient civilizations
are coming after Atlantis.
So who knows, probably the
pyramid in the Giza Plateau,
that they also prove that
are not about Cheops,
Fifth Dynasty, 3,000--
And Robert Schoch's
research shows
that the Sphinx is really old.
CROTALO SESAMO: Absolutely.
They are before what
we call Egyptian.
So they're coming from
another civilization.
So probably after Atlantis
they went to Egypt.
CROTALO SESAMO: Absolutely.
So these are from another
civilization, Atlantis.
And the reason why there is so
many similarities from culture,
from civilization-- so
far away, just imagine
the Egyptian, Mayas, or
the Incas, or others--
is because they probably were
coming from the same mother,
from the same
civilization, Atlantis.
And it's weird, or
absolutely normal,
then, to understand why they
knew so well about time,
about stars, about geometry.
They have books of knowledge--
Popol Vuh for the Mayas,
the Book of Death
for the Egyptians,
Bardo Thodol for the Tibetan.
They have more or less
the same [INAUDIBLE],
the same idea about the creation
of the universe, the divinity.
About life and death.
Life and death.
They are so, so attent to
the beyond, to the death.
But not the death
as an end, but as
a way to continue your
process of transformation
into the beyond.
So they have so
many similarities
that now we might
really understand.
JAY WEIDNER: There
has to be a mother
language or a mother culture.
CROTALO SESAMO: They are
coming from the same mother,
what we call Atlantis.
What is now in this
picture is the overview
of the central part,
where there are
the most important places to
describe the Atlantis culture.
Oh, this is pretty interesting.
There's so many, many things
to say about-- number one,
it's about the dimension.
Probably you saw over there
a person, an individual.
So everything's gigantic.
That is really, really
huge for several reasons.
Number one, because when
you are in a capital,
you have to be impressed
about the country.
So when you go to Paris,
or you go to Washington,
or you go to Rome-- wow, you
really feel I'm in a very
powerful and important country.
At the same time, it's
interesting to see how,
in the past, we talk
about human, but human
also in different forms.
I mean, we talk about human
with this physical body.
But for example, in
many tales in the past,
there are giant, giant people.
You remember they
are really gigantic.
JAY WEIDNER: They
have skeletons.
And we already know
that in the past-- well,
not only in the past.
Some archaeologists found
bones of giant people.
But officially we don't
know so much about it.
So who knows.
Maybe this place
was able to host
many different life
forms, also forms
that probably were pretty big.
Well, actually also church,
cathedral, temple, inside,
they are really huge.
And not for sure to spend
less money for making-- this
isn't working.
JAY WEIDNER: They
cost a lot of money.
But if we think about
it, what is a temple?
What is the church?
It's the house of god.
Because god is pretty
huge to be fit in.
JAY WEIDNER: It sort
of has to be big.
Well, it's just to
joke a little bit.
But it might give us a
different perspective.
Again, today, I don't
want to convince anyone.
But I'd love really to shift
a bit the way of thinking,
or the connection
between information
that maybe we already know.
But now with a different idea,
they might be united, giving
completely different pictures.
Just to enlarge one
detail, one detail
that is pretty
interesting, interesting
to see-- number one, that
there is something that
is flying high into the sky.
So we talk about a refined
civilization that probably used
different kind of technology.
But if they are
true, so they're not
just flying through the sky.
They probably are
going to the space.
JAY WEIDNER: Going to the stars.
CROTALO SESAMO: We might
maybe imagine that Atlantis
was not only the most
important civilization
based on the planet.
But maybe it was
also civilization
in connection with something
bigger, with something larger.
Because also the idea that
we are alone-- are you ready?
Do you have that minimal level
of evolution or conscience
to be ready to be part
of something bigger?
Because, well, personally I
believe that we're not alone.
And if we have to imagine
that we are one of billions
and billions of planets,
to try to say that we
are the only one is pretty
weird, almost impossible,
or how come?
Actually kind of
stupid in a way.
Yes.
But I can really
understand why maybe
they are not contacting us.
Because, I mean, if
they watch our TV,
probably they will
say, no, thank you.
We don't want to.
JAY WEIDNER: We don't want
anything to do with you guys,
except for Gaiam TV.
No, except for Gaiam.
Gaiam TV is one of the
few hopes for the future.
But if they are coming
to a general TV,
oh my goodness, why to
connect to this planet?
JAY WEIDNER: Pretty bad.
So anyhow, let's really imagine
that Atlantis was not only
connected to the planet, but was
connected to something bigger.
And who knows, maybe
the same Atlantis
was the capital not only of one
important civilization here,
but maybe it was the capital
of something really, really,
really, really, really huge.
Maybe we can talk about empires.
But I don't want to go so
much on the "Star Wars."
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
don't want to do that.
But at the same time, why not?
Why not imagine that we could
be part of something really big?
And at the same time,
well, this planet,
it is, yes, a little planet
pretty far from other places.
But it's a unique planet.
It's full of life.
And life is one of
the most important
things in the universe.
And we have such an
incredible variety
of life, so many
billions of forms of life
that we have, from plants
to animal to human.
And it makes this planet
really, really, really unique.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
I agree with that.
So we were probably
more important than what
we thought until now.
Another interesting
picture-- not only because we
have an idea of the arts.
And the art is this universal
language able to express
values without translation.
But it's interesting for
me to bring your attention
on the symbols on the signs.
If you think about it, when
we talk about symbology,
we might talk about
archetype language.
Or I would like to
talk about ancestral
language, what they are.
Well, an archetype language
is based on symbols, words,
sounds, movement with
many different levels
of interpretation.
And our symbols that even if
we don't know nothing about it,
they seem to touch
the soul, and then
brought emotion or feelings
or intuition or memory.
Like when we observe a
mandala-- different symbols,
different row, different
colors, able to do what?
Well, to rise our
conscience, and then
to open up our conscience
to something higher,
to a state of meditation,
or to receive answer,
or to receive, again,
ideas or memories.
Why does this happen?
Because inside, we don't
have only a genetic DNA.
But we have a sort
of spiritual DNA
based on this
different symbology.
And then we talk about
ancestral language.
Because probably this is
language not only known here,
but also many
other places, maybe
many other planets, many other
places where life is going on.
So they're called ancestral
because they are well-known.
And they are the common language
for many different life form.
JAY WEIDNER: Almost like
there's a memory in the art
form itself.
Absolutely.
And then the artist
becomes as channeler.
It's a medium.
And then the person viewing
it is communicating with it.
Absolutely, and the
communication is not just done
with this, but is done with
this, or is with something
that is really connecting to
the beyond, to other dimensions,
to other states.
Because life is not
just what appears.
So art is so important in every
civilization for this reason.
And in Atlantis, there is
an extremely refined use
of this different symbology
that, as you notice,
are changing the meaning
simply from the perspective
that you are looking of them.
It's also interesting to see
this woman and the hair--
you see?
Whew-- just to
remind one more time
that this is a very windy
place, a lot of wind constantly.
So wind is used in all Atlantis
through this different artistic
installation, and also
through the shape,
the design of these different
buildings to do what?
To make this wind create
sounds, frequencies, vibrations.
So it's like to create the
right sound for the place
where you are in the city.
Like imagine, you go
in a garden in Boulder,
and you listen to Bach.
You go in another
part of the city,
and then you're listening
to Mozart piano.
So can you imagine how
refined this civilization was
and how beautiful it
could be in a place
where everything is
encouraging you and welcoming
you to be with the
right set of conscience
regarding where you are.
So the architecture was made so
that the wind, when it whipped
around the architecture,
would create different kind
of hums and whistles.
CROTALO SESAMO: Exactly.
Wow, that's great.
That is really refined.
That's serious.
I say, well, why not?
Why not do it now?
Now that's impressive.
Why not?
And if you think about it, that
sound in the ancient tradition
is mentioned also
to create energy,
or to create a physical
effect on the matter.
JAY WEIDNER: In the
beginning was the word.
So there's a sound
at the beginning.
God is creating everything,
giving names to everything.
Names is the frequency,
is the vibration of sound.
In India, Nada Brahman,
the world is sound.
Exactly, so everything
is based on sound.
Actually, when we arrive here,
the first things that we do
is-- [SCREAMS].
And nobody is telling us that
we have to do it like that.
It's not like the man is
saying, OK, when you come out,
you have to scream.
No, it's the most
natural way to do what?
To recall attention, to
recall energy to us, to say,
hey, oh my goodness, I'm back.
I'm back again.
So the sound is the most natural
way to express this power
of creation that we have.
Why?
Well, because we believe that
the soul is a piece of god.
It's a divine spark.
So actually all
of us we are god.
And the process of
the enlightenment
is not only to bring
the matter to light,
to become light again.
But it's also the process
to reawaken your inner god,
and then to unite yourself
with the bigger one,
with the conscience to be the
big one and the little one
at the same time.
JAY WEIDNER: And all the
other gods that are with you.
And all the others.
Because we are one,
even if it seems
we like so much to be separated.
No, this is not the way.
Yes, very interesting, and we
are really going to the magic.
I mean, magic and technology,
sometimes the border
is really, whew, very thin.
How many instruments we're using
now that just 30 or 40 years
ago they seem to be magic?
Let's imagine the
smartphones, computers, Wi-Fi.
It's unbelievable.
I mean for us now it's nothing.
But 15 years ago, it seems
to be impossible, magic.
And it's a pity, in my opinion,
the fact that what the science
doesn't prove says is not true.
Because it's like to
give a huge limitation.
Well probably what I don't
know is not that it's not true.
It's simply that I
don't know how it works.
That's it.
How many things
coming from the past
now are understandable because
we have the technology?
Maybe they are describing things
that now we know are true.
Because we did it-- like
to fly, to go to space,
like to transmit
information in the air,
et cetera and et cetera.
But probably not at the time
this was absolutely normal.
So I believe, we believe,
there is a lot of things
still to discover.
Or maybe we already
discovered it.
But we have to
open for everyone.
I don't have to remind you
that, for example, the Wi-Fi
was discovered from Tesla.
And the electricity was
not distributed by rope.
This was the only way to control
the energy that is distributed
and then to pay for that.
But the Wi-Fi also
for electricity
was discovered already
130, 140 years ago.
Can you imagine
what incredible jump
could be for the
human kind if access
to free energy, for example?
JAY WEIDNER: Almost had it.
CROTALO SESAMO: Almost.
Well, hopefully soon.
-Yep, it's coming back.
-It's coming back.
Anyhow, so we are talking
about many things.
But this is a very
impressive picture for me,
not only again
because we can see--
JAY WEIDNER: Little
tiny people, yeah.
CROTALO SESAMO: See the
huge, fantastic dimension,
but because this is a perfect
integration between art
and practical things,
between architecture,
and an architecture that
is not just beautiful
but is also very
useful for people.
So this is a huge,
incredible statue.
And at the same time, it's not
a statue, but it's a palace.
So inside, it's like
a building with all
we need for what we have to do.
And this place is
pretty interesting.
Because this is a sort
of station and university
at the same time to discover and
research all the time effect,
all the temporal effect.
Like to imagine the
structure of time,
the time travel, the possibility
to move into this territory,
is, again, a technology--
well, probably also
a very powerful technology.
So you have really
to use it correctly.
But in Atlantis, like
in other civilizations,
this was normal, a
normal technology.
To do what?
Well, not to go in the
past for a touristy reason,
not really for that.
But in this concept,
time travel is
used to make possible something
in the future, in the present.
If we believe that all that
happens is a chain of events,
and all these events
are all connected,
to be in a sort of field, like
many researchers are telling,
if I'm moving something
from the past,
I'm create an effect
right here now.
So the reason why
to go back into time
is to create an effect now.
That's it.
Interesting.
It's one vision.
It's one logic.
Again, maybe I'm
totally crazy or I
didn't sleep so much
yesterday night,
so OK, I have to go to Gaiam.
I have to invent something.
But it's extremely fascinating.
So why to then go to the back?
Yes, to get information,
to get-- yes, fine.
But there is something more.
So the only reason
why to go to the past
is to create something in
the future, in the present,
right now.
So this is the
place where they are
studying all this time effect.
And it's also a
station-- not a train
station, but a time station.
People are coming.
People are going--
pretty fascinating,
pretty fascinating.
And it's interesting
to see the entrance.
This sacred geometry
is mentioned
like the door for the dimension,
or the dimension portal.
And it's interesting how this
geometry is used in the temple
in Egypt, in Peru, in other
places to connect the beyond,
to connect the dimension.
JAY WEIDNER: Even
Masonic has the compass
that's shaped like that.
Let's say really like
a door able to connect
to other places, and maybe
also to jump out-- who knows.
Maybe some civilization, they
may have decided to simply go.
JAY WEIDNER: So there might
be some more of these still
here on earth.
CROTALO SESAMO: Absolutely.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah, let's go.
And they can come back.
Or they can do something else.
Well, actually, Mayas, well, the
Maya ones they are at the top
of the top of the top.
They disappeared.
Their cities are empty.
Nobody's there.
And the archaeologists
don't know how to explain.
They say, OK, there
was fighting together.
They killed each other.
It was disease.
They died-- not at all.
They might just choose
to say, bye-bye, OK,
we don't want to play
this game anymore.
Or it's too risky.
We're going another place
or another dimension,
another place.
And also this shape was
using their temple exactly
for this kind of research.
JAY WEIDNER: So are these
people on the stairway just
coming back from another time?
CROTALO SESAMO: Well,
this is the entrance.
But it's not the only place.
So the building, the
place, is really huge.
So it's interesting for me
to bring attention on that.
Because again, we are connecting
things that probably we
know from other places.
JAY WEIDNER: Whoa.
CROTALO SESAMO:
This is a detail.
And this is really
part of the mystery,
for me, the really
still unknown.
So how Dovilio, thanks
to Falco's help,
paints all these details.
Because even with
all my fantasy,
I could not do
something like this.
It's unbelievable.
And it's not a
matter that I like
it or I don't like it
or give me good feelings
or less good feeling.
It's really the complexity
of the elements,
the game between
form that's then
transforming in other forms.
I always remind people
that I'm showing
this picture that
these pictures are
not just beautiful or artistic.
But these are really
keys, keys able to open--
open memory, open
intuition, open
something regarding, again,
the memory of our soul journey.
And if we believe that this
civilization was existing,
and is probably one of the most
important or the most important
regarding the process, and then
the human kind, follow after.
So probably we
crossed this moment.
We crossed this civilization.
We did things here.
And they're still
trying to talk with us.
So these symbols,
this picture here,
are really opening something.
Maybe then tonight in your
dreams they will be expressed.
Because there's a level that
says, OK, cool, but too crazy.
And then there is a
moment where inside, maybe
through the dreams where
everything is possible,
then these memories
are coming out.
So watch your dreams tonight.
Because they may be interesting.
JAY WEIDNER: That is
truly an amazing picture.
Whoa.
CROTALO SESAMO: Yes, there's
a lot of whoa things.
Because can you imagine to
stand in front of a building?
Again, look at the
dimension of people.
Wow, it's really gigantic.
JAY WEIDNER: Do we
know what the rope
thing is that the statues have
that they're holding there?
CROTALO SESAMO: Yes, there's
something interesting there.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah, what is that?
CROTALO SESAMO: Well
there, there is something
that is a sort of airplane.
But don't imagine that
they're using petrol
or they're fracking or they're
doing things like that.
No, here there is
the use of technology
that we are still not using.
I already mentioned the sound.
And you know there's a lot of
tales talking about the sound
creating anti-gravity effect.
How they build these gigantic
pyramids with this block
of granite perfectly shaped--
just put it together,
and not even a little sheet
of paper they can cross them.
How do they do that
with no technology?
Or simply imagine 1,000
slaves are pulling, pushing.
It's crazy.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah, it is crazy.
You need to use
something different.
I mean, even now,
with our technology,
we cannot do the same.
We cannot cut stones
in such a precise way.
It's impossible.
JAY WEIDNER: No, they tried
to build a small pyramid.
I forget the guy,
the Egyptologist.
And he finally had
to get a crane.
He couldn't do it.
CROTALO SESAMO: No,
he couldn't do it.
It simply is impossible.
It was only like 8 feet high.
It wasn't even a big pyramid.
Not big like the one
in the Giza Plateau.
So we really need to imagine
that there is other technology.
And sound is one of them.
JAY WEIDNER: Yes it is.
Sound is able to create
anti-gravity effect,
and then to lose weight of
everything, even a piece
of granite that is 1,000 tons.
And then you can just
lift it with one finger.
But also magnetic field-- well,
it's an interesting technology
discovered and developed
from the German,
and then sold from the Chinese.
And now in China there are many
trains that are, let's say,
sliding on a carpet
of magnetic field.
And they can get
very high speed.
Maglev, they call it.
Yes, extremely expensive.
But it could be one
possible future where it's
pretty insane to build a road.
Because you can just
create a magnetic road
on many different levels
without moving anything.
It's a future-- well,
I hope it's a future
that is coming true very soon.
Because we really need it,
not to destroy this planet.
The building here is an
astronomic observatory--
perfect knowledge about
stars, conservation, movement,
and the effect of them.
Again, probably Atlantis is
a civilization connecting
not only to the planet, but
really connected to something
bigger.
What is interesting in this
painting is the animals.
You see the pegasus or
others, or the unicorn.
Because probably these are
not just mythological animals,
but maybe they were really
existing a long time ago.
JAY WEIDNER: And that's
pegasus, too, the flying horse.
CROTALO SESAMO: Exactly, or
also the strong connection
with some animals,
like dolphins.
Because we also believed that
there are other animal forms
that carry on the human
soul, like dolphins or whales
or elephants, for example.
Here we go.
Also you see unicorns.
But on top, we
finally see the most
important divinity in the time.
I'm talking about Poseidon.
And Poseidon is holding
the trident that-- remember
the power that Poseidon has
on the sea, on the sea forces,
on the ocean, on the water.
The water is another
element extremely connected
to the Atlantis culture.
JAY WEIDNER: Blue people.
CROTALO SESAMO: Blue people--
interesting, this one.
This picture reminds--
the seven wonders.
JAY WEIDNER: Ah,
Titan of Rhodes,
or the Colossus of Rhodes.
CROTALO SESAMO: The
Colossus of Rhodes.
In the gate-- and look upstairs,
probably also the airport.
Yes it is.
The port and the
airport of Atlantis.
But what is interesting for me
in this painting that is really
powerful, you can really
perceive a lot of strength
inside, is these three
different huge palaces
in the form of humans.
Well definitely, there are
differences between the three
of them.
JAY WEIDNER: There certainly is.
CROTALO SESAMO: The
first one seems to be
the old one or the ancient one.
And the last two
are more recent.
Well actually, there
is a difference,
about 4,000 years between
the first and the last one.
And if the last two are
more male and female,
the first one is a bit weird.
Because it seems to
be a man, or a human,
but probably more
a humanoid, or I
would jokingly say a
human with problem,
but really humanoid,
or a little bit alien.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
maybe a bit alien.
And that might help
us to really connect
the history of Atlantis that
at the beginning, who knows,
maybe is not really, again,
just based on the planet Earth.
Maybe there was visitors.
Maybe there was another
civilization coming here.
JAY WEIDNER: There they
are at the landing.
Maybe creating
colonies, maybe colonies
that then at a
certain point they
decided that they want
to be independent,
and they become an
independent civilization base
on the human of this planet.
And who knows?
Maybe Atlantis was one of these
colonies becoming independent,
and then not only independent,
but connecting to empires.
It becomes maybe an empire, too,
and having the capital right in
this planet, right in Atlantis.
Well, it's very fascinating that
it might help us to understand
why this planet is also
so important, so crucial
also for others, for other
intelligence, for other forces,
for other forms.
Next-- yes, this is just to--
JAY WEIDNER: Ah,
they're working on him,
restoring him or something.
CROTALO SESAMO: Yes,
they are restoring--
different kind of
boats, again, moving
with different kind of energy.
And in the next one, you
saw there the airplane.
Well, it looks like an
airplane that we know.
You see the nose.
It seems a Concorde.
Concorde, right.
Concorde had it
because it was moving
so fast that it had
to have that nose
to keep it so it wouldn't--
Exactly.
And the Concorde was
the first airplane
used for civil
transportation that
was supersonic, so
that was crossing
the mach, the sound speed.
Again, sound is
coming back also--
One hour from Paris
to New York, right?
Well, yes, it was probably
two or three hours,
but in any case, great compared
with the eight or nine hours
that you have to fly now.
Oh, here we are now
under the water.
Because in the
Atlantis philosophy,
the surface is for
life, for living.
So there's no industry.
There's no places
to produce things.
There's not places
to get resources.
Because all of them
move in another space.
And this space is many
times under the water.
Because if, in the
surface, it's really
stormy, very, very deep down,
the water is pretty stable.
So they created sort of
bubbles where inside they
are extracting,
producing, transforming,
doing what they have to do.
And then through the
different systems,
like the balloons that
you see over there--
or through this machine.
Look at this machine.
It might remind us of Jules
Verne and the 20,000 leagues
under the water.
Who knows, maybe the sea
monster is not a monster.
But they are, who knows, maybe
ships that were surviving.
There's been reports
of sailors seeing
ships underneath the water going
back for hundreds of years.
CROTALO SESAMO: Exactly,
so it's interesting
also to make this connection.
Oh yes, just to see the details
of the previous picture--
you see with the entrance
from these places,
and then also these balloons
that sometimes they're
using to bring all the
stuff, all the elements,
on the surface.
-Up to the surface, right.
Again, we are in
front of a very,
very refined civilization.
Even if talking about
Atlantis-- again,
let's say there is a good
side and another side
that is not pretty good.
But we're going
to discover soon.
A garden-- well, it's
strange that they
decided to make a picture,
a painting, about a garden.
But probably they do it because
this is not really a garden.
This is a fake garden.
There everything is
in metal-- everything,
even the squirrel, the
serpent, the trees, leaves.
Everything is done by metal.
JAY WEIDNER: Why
did they do that?
CROTALO SESAMO: Well, metal
is one of the materials
that the Atlantian uses in
an extremely refined way--
not only in this
artistic realization,
using metals like
gold, but also metals
also not really coming
from this planet.
But in this case,
metals are used also
to form, physical form,
able to catalyze energy,
able to catalyze intelligence.
Very similar, or if you want
the same, concept of what we
talked before-- self, Selfica.
It's not English. "Self"
comes from ancient language.
It means "spiral."
And as you know, spiral is
one of the most important
in sacred geometry.
So the Selfica is
this ancient knowledge
that combines the knowledge or
the use of this sacred geometry
combined with
different materials,
like metals, and not only.
So they're able to
catalyze the vital energy,
transform it, and then donate
many different functions.
If you want,
Selfica is something
that can hold or
contain not only energy,
but an intelligent energy, able
to interact with the owner,
interact with the environment,
and support what you're doing,
or support your process
of transformational,
or support your life, or
support some specific function.
This is a knowledge
that in Damanhur we
brought back after
many, many, many years--
pretty unique,
pretty extraordinary
for the field of research,
and is knowledge that we're
not the only one to use.
But in many museums of many
different civilizations,
we found-- like in the
Egyptian, like the museum
of the Native Americans,
like for the civilization
before the Viking,
like in Mesoamerica
in the pre-Maya civilization,
like in Peru-- again,
same knowledge also
regarding something that
is a connection between
different dimensions
where this intelligence
is recalled
to be here in something
that could be understood,
like body basal metals.
I know that probably this is
opening many other questions.
JAY WEIDNER: Yeah,
especially since we've only
got like five minutes
left, and I have a million
more questions for you.
CROTALO SESAMO: I know, I know,
so Atlantis gives me the chance
to open so many-- wow.
So for the next time, let's say.
Yeah, we'll continue.
OK, this is pretty amazing.
CROTALO SESAMO: And
this is something
very similar to
the King's Valley,
the Egyptian King's
Valley, so the place
where there are
old kings' tombs.
And it's interesting for me.
Because this will give us a
little taste of the history
of Atlantis that is no
different from the history
of these last 2,000 years--
a process of kingdom,
battles, races that are
dominant, different kinds
of evolution approach,
like to cross,
I don't know, Genghis
Khan and the Mongolians,
and then the Roman Empire,
and then Alexander the Great,
and then Napoleon.
So there is,
historically speaking,
a process that then refines
that culture to be what it is.
And it's the same for Atlantis.
So in this different tomb, we
really see different character,
different symbology,
different art,
that gives this taste
of a long history,
but at the same time not
so far from our history.
JAY WEIDNER: Right,
you know, I think
that's actually a great
place for us to take a pause.
And you're going to
come back next time.
And we're going to continue
from this picture on, all right?
I want to get into
all of these details.
This is too important
for us to not go over.
And we're going to
unlock those memories.
CROTALO SESAMO:
Fantastic, fantastic.
OK, I'm Jay Weidner, and
you've been watching me and--
Crotalo.
JAY WEIDNER: Crotalo-- ay.
This is our third conversation.
We're going to have many more.
As you can tell, he's
a knowledgeable guy.
And he connects a lot
of things together
that have not been connected.
So thanks, man.
Thank you kindly.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]